---
author: Jack
categories:
- Journal
date: 2012-03-22T00:00:00+00:00
tags:
- personal
title: Road Rage
url: /2012/road-rage/
---

<div>
  <div>
    <div>
      <div>
        <div>
          <p>
            I get angry
          </p>
          
          <p>
            I become angry while driving. Not mildly annoyed, but full-on vein-popping, teeth-grittingly furious. This isn't the exception either. It happens nearly every time I get behind the wheel.
          </p>
          
          <p>
            I'm not normally aggressive or prone to violence. In fact, I'd consider myself a pretty mild-mannered fella. Very roll-with-the-punches, I'd say. And yet, I am consumed with road rage during even the most basic commute. It's not healthy.
          </p>
          
          <p>
            I could relax while driving if people would simply remember a few of the rules we all learned in kindergarten.
          </p>
          
          <ol>
            <li>
              No cutting in line for any reason
            </li>
            <li>
              You are not the only person who matters
            </li>
            <li>
              Don't be such a DICK!
            </li>
          </ol>
          
          <p>
            That's it. Follow those rules and I'm Mr. Happy. Ignore them and I go all self-appointed-vigilante, tensing up and spewing obscenities. I'm not looking for a fight. Honest. I simply feel the need to let folks know in no uncertain terms that they've just made a dick move and should stop doing that. Yelling and getting angry doesn't help, which is something <em>I</em> should have learned in kindergarten. Despite my efforts, people still drive like assholes. The only likely outcome is that I'm going to die of a heart attack or gunshot wound.
          </p>
          
          <p>
            If I can't fix anyone else, I suppose I'm going to have to fix myself.
          </p>
          
          <p>
            For the past week I've been practicing. I smile kindly at the guy sneaking out-of-turn through the 4-way stop. I just quietly shake my head when someone decides that turn signals are too much hassle to bother with. Deep Breaths help.
          </p>
          
          <p>
            So far it's only been mildly successful, and I'm looking forward to the day when I arrive at my destination with unclenched teeth.
          </p>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>