---
author: Jack
categories:
- Hardware
date: 2009-08-01T05:38:04+00:00
image_source:
- http://us.leica-camera.com/photography/m_system/m7/
tags:
- gear
- photography
thesis_post_image:
- https://www.baty.net/files/leica-m7-black.jpg
title: M8-1=M7
url: /2009/m8-1m7/
---

I recently bought a Leica M8 and it seemed like such a great idea. I love my film M cameras and the convenience of digital could only make things better, right?

The M8 is a great camera, but I sold it. I just couldn't get used to the quirks. Things like lens coding, crop factors, and IR/cut filters were distracting and preventing me from loving the camera. I paid $2,600 for it, and didn't love it. For that much money I needed to love it. Besides, it was depreciating faster than the film Leicas. Leica is about to announce a full frame M9, which will likely reduce the value of the M8 even more. I sold it for $2,500, meaning I've about $50/month into it. Not a bad rental rate, but I don't see that holding up. I've seen them for sale since then for $2,300.

One thing I enjoyed about the M8 was aperture-priority auto exposure. I love my meterless, fully manual [M4](2009/02/light-tight-box-my-ass-2/) but sometimes it's nice to just focus and shoot, knowing the exposure is going to be spot on.

So I replaced the M8 with an M7, Leica's most modern film camera. The M7's automatic exposure is an improvement over my old M6. The electronically-controlled shutter makes the M7 battery dependent, but I can live with that.

\*\*M8\*\*

* Pro: Convenience of digital
  
* Pro: Beautiful files
  
* Con: Suffers from reliability problems
  
* Con: Depreciating rapidly
  
* Con: Still very expensive
  
* Con: Wide lenses require coding
  
* Con: Lenses require IR Cut filters to prevent color shifts
  
* Con: I don't like the body covering
  
* Con: Larger than the film Ms
  
* Con: Covering and lack of film advance lever make it difficult to grip
  
* Con: Completely battery dependent

\*\*M7\*\*

* Pro: Aperture priority auto exposure
  
* Pro: Easily replaceable sensor (film) 🙂
  
* Pro: Vulcanite body covering better than the M8's
  
* Pro: Smaller and easier to grip than the M8
  
* Pro: Price is not depreciating rapidly.
  
* Pro: Quieter shutter than M8
  
* Con: No chimping
  
* Con: Electronically controlled shutter means partial battery dependency (some speeds work without battery)

The adventure continues.